If you are trying to play on the hardcore survival modded server, follow the instructions below to install the mods and connect to the
server.

This aims to be a comprehensive tutorial and so I have provided appendix instructions in the case things don't go smoothly.

Installing java 11

Notes:
- When downloading from sites like Adfly, do **NOT** click any 'download' button on the site. Simply wait for the skip button to
show in the top right of the screen after a certain period of time (6 seconds usually).



INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS:


1. Download forge 1.12.2

The server is run on Minecraft version 1.12.2 because it is the most compatible version of minecraft for the most mods.
As a result you will need to download a 1.12.2 version of forge, a modloader, from this link: 

link: https://maven.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/1.12-14.21.1.2443/forge-1.12-14.21.1.2443-installer.jar
alt: https://files.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/index_1.12.html | click on the **latest** version

This should download a jar file (you may need to accept the file), which you should then run. Choose the client installation.
If you do not have java installed you will not be able to run the jar file, see APPENDIX INSTRUCTIONS 'Install Java'.


2. Run the forge installation from Minecraft launcher.

Go into the minecraft launcher, and if it is not already selected, select the 1.12.2 forge installation from the
drop down menu next to play. If it is not in the drop down see APPENDIX INSTRUCTIONS 'Launch Forge'.


3. Add the mods to your client

To do this, we need to open the mods folder that was generated by running forge (note that simply making this folder before
running forge will result in the entire directory being deleted, so don't skip that step). 

[Windows only]
a. Search for 'run'
b. enter "%appdata%"
c. click on ".minecraft" > "mods", and you are there. I'd recommend making a shortcut to this directory on your desktop for easy access.

Put all the mods in this directory, and your client should be good to go! Note that the mods cannot be zipped!



CONNECTION INSTRUCTIONS:


Connect to the server and provide username for server side to whitelist

For the whitelist just message the username to Bacon
To connnect, in Minecraft go to the usual multiplayer section, click add server, name it what you want, then enter the server ip:

ipv4: 174.102.131.99

click done. If the server is up you should be able to connect to it once whitelisted.




APPENDIX INSTRUCTIONS


**Install Java:**

Install java 11 using the Adopt Open (recently renamed to Adoptium) JDK binary:

link: https://adoptium.net/?variant=openjdk11

After installing you should be able to run jar files. Otherwise check environment variables (see appendix instructions). If that fails
then you may need to install and run jarfix - google it (very unlikely to have issues so disregarding link).


**Launch Forge:**

1. Click the installations tab
2. Click 'New installation'
3. Name it something close to "Forge 1.12.2"
4. Click version, and select the correct Forge version*

*if the forge version is not listed (check __entire__ list), then do the following:
1. Select the 1.12.2 version of minecraft (vanilla). Run it.
2. Exit
3. Repeat process for installing Forge (if you did not delete the jar just reinstall client).